In the last lecture, we covered the configuration for S&P version two in this lecture, Ukichi, the
configuration for S&P version three.
Joe, you saw earlier that in S&P version one and two, the S&P manager, that's our Annemasse server
and the S&P agent or switch, they recognize each other through simple unencrypted community strings.
So it's not very secure baggage improved upon with S&P version three, which does support authentication
and encryption with S&P version three, the security model uses users and groups.
So we're going to configure a user on a switch and we can figure out a matching user on the Annemasse
server.
That's how they recognize each other.
There's also a group as well.
So most of the settings are configured at the group level and those settings are going to be applied
to the user depending on which group it's actually in.
There's three different security levels available and these are configured at the group level.
Normally you're going to just use one particular security level, but it is possible that you could
have one Annemasse server in one group if it's got one security level and a different Annemasse server
and a different group that's got a different security level.
That would be a pretty weird thing to do, but it is possible to do that.
The three different security levels.
The first one is new, all new priv, which means new authentication and new privacy with new ofthe
new prev new authentication password is exchanged and the communications between the agent and the server
are not encrypted.
So with no new priv, it still doesn't use a communication thing.
It still uses a username because it's an AMP version three.
But that username basically replaces works with Seema's, the Community String and S&P version one and
version two.
So there's not much point in doing that.
Doesn't really give you any advantage over the old S&P versions.
The next security level we've got is off new priv with all new priv.
Password authentication is used through the Annemasse server and the network device will securely authenticate
each other.
When we do that authentication, the authentication is encrypted.
So the username, username and password is encrypted is not go in plain text.
But after that initial authentication, no encryption is used for communications between the devices.
So if the server pooled some information from the device, that's going to go over the network unencrypted.
So the last one is one that we're most likely going to want to use, which is off prev with off prev.
Password authentication is used again, the same as it was in off no priv, but communications between
the agent and the server are also encrypted.
So with off prev, the Annemasse server and the device are going to securely authenticate each other
about does not go in plain text and also whenever they are sharing information that is also encrypted
as well.
So this is the most secure way of doing it.
If we're using S&P version three, most likely we're going to be using off PRIV.
OK, so let's look at the configuration she saw earlier in this picture.
We're going to have the group and we're going to have the user as well.
Let's configure the group first through a global config.
I see S&P Dosch Server Group in this example of called the group Blackbox Dosch Group, then actually
V three to see that we're using S&P version three and then the example of use the context of how I've
hit the question mark to see what the next keyword is.
And this is where we set the security level of either off North or PRIV.
Then next thing that we do so in an example, upset because I want the most secure level, then a question
mark and again, see what the next keyword is.
Next keyword, we've got access context to March.
No, if I read and write with access, you can send access.
Let's talk about that a bit more in the next slide context and March Bov apply to contexts and know
if I read and write are about views.
So let's see what that means to the first keyword available.
There was access.
What you can do is you can configure a normal access and access list under a switch where you specify
the IP address, the Annemasse server, and then when you configure your S&P saying here you can reference
my access list, which means you're locking it down, that this switch will only communicate with S&P.
With that particular IP address, you're looking at the IP address of your name server, the next keywords
we had in there.
What about context?
Contacts are used on switches to specify which Villines are accessible via S&P.
If you're configuring a switch, you might need to set that up so that uranium's system can access over
Villines, not just the default Bilan.
And then the last thing we said there were our views, views can be used to limit what information is
accessible to the Annemasse server and we had a review, a right view and a new if you are all available,
if you don't specify a review, then all MIB objects are accessible to read.
So by default, the anonymous server can get all the different S&P information from that particular
device.
So if you want to lock it down to only be able to govern, you may be able to pool a particular set
of information.
Then you would use a review for that.
Next one was the right view.
If you don't specify a right view, the new MV objects are accessible, right?
So this works the other way.
So by default, it can read everything, but it can write nothing.
So if you want to lock down and limit what it can read, configure a review.
If you want it to be able to write anything, then you have to configure it right.
Without explicitly configuring a right view.
It doesn't get any right access.
So by default, the Annemasse server gets read only access to all MIBS.
The last one was new or five.
You know, if a view is used to send notifications to members of the notification is a trap.
If you don't specify and even it will be disabled by default.
OK, so those were our views.
So when I configure the group here in this example, the fill command I use is an app server group,
black box group, V3 Prive.
So I haven't configured any access list and any views or anything here.
They are all optional and because I'm using the default here, the Annemasse server is in this group
will have full read-only access to the device.
Oh, yes, I've configured my group.
The next thing I'm going to want to do is configure my user to the first word I use again is an AMP
server, but I'm doing the user testing, so that's an app server user.
And then for my example user, I've called it Blackbox Dosch user.
Next, Expensify, the group that this user is in and I'm putting it in the flat box group that I just
configured a minute ago, actually, V3 for P version three.
And then off is where I'm going to specify the authentication algorithm.
I'm going to use I can either use AMD five or shot authentication.
Schaar is more secure, but it's a little bit slower.
Next up, so upset S&P server user, flatboat user in flatboat group S&P version, three of them using
Shaar.
And I'm using an authentication password of off password for this example.
You know, we talked about the three different security levels and there you specified authentication
and privacy separately.
But we can figure the authentication and the privacy separately as well.
So right now, I've already configured the authentication.
Next up, I'm going to configure the privacy.
So I say Priv and I use that question mark again, ishiba of options I've got here.
And I can either use Dare's triple Dare's or encryption is the most modern those it's the most secure.
It's a little bit slower.
OK, after I can figure that through here and I won't read the whole county again, I've got up to I'm
using a yes encryption.
Next stop, Expensify, whether it's 128, one hundred and ninety two or two hundred and fifty six bit,
obviously the higher the number of and more secured it's going to be, but it's going to take more CPUSA
calls be a little slower.
So looking at the complete command, I've got S&P server, user watchbox user blackbox group using S&P
version three for authentication.
I'm using shop as my algorithm.
My password is off password.
And for Priv, I'm using a yes 120 encryption with a password of priv password.
So that is my user and my group set up on my switch.
Now what I would do next is I would go on to my Annemasse server and I would configure a user there
with matching settings here.
So I would set it with the same username of Flatboat user.
I would specify the password on reproved password and Nazmi done.
My Annemasse server is now going to be able to access my device and pull information from it.